This is just kind of a recap,
cuz folks as we mentioned in the chat,
have pointed out that
JavaScript is part of the web.
So HTML, and CSS, and JavaScript, are all
kind of BFFs cuz we love acronyms here.
[LAUGH] So [LAUGH] best friends forever,
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Can anybody help me break down?
So HTML versus CSS versus JavaScript.
How do you all think about them?
How do you all think about how these
three web technologies relate?
Anybody in the room here wanna share too?
>> HTML is mostly for content structure.
>> HTML for content and structure, yes.
So HTML is sort of how we
declare the stuff in the webpage
would you say, the content,
excellent point.
Yeah, Paul.
>> I've had to describe
the HTML is like the noun,
CSS is the adjective, and
JavaScript is the verb.
>> I like that a lot, that's great.
HTML is the noun, is the thing,
CSS is the adjective,
the description of the thing, and
JavaScript is the verb, the action.
That happens with the thing,
I love that a lot.
And that is sort of similar,
that's kind of how I think about it.
So I kind of think about this as sort
of like a musical theater production or
a stage production, a play or
something, like Hamilton, for example.
So I think of HTML as kind of
like the actors on stage or
maybe the props, the things,
the nouns, the content.
The CSS kind of like the costumes and
the set design and
how the lighting looks and
sort of how everything looks, and
kind of feels, so sort of the style
put on top of all that content.
And then, I think of JavaScript as sort
of like the choreography, the dancing,
the moving across the stage,
giving things life,
bringing things to life a little bit.
So if either of these analogies,
the noun, verb,
adjective analogy or the the stage
production analogy work for you, great.
But this is essentially how these three
core web technologies play together.
And JavaScript is the one that
adds the pop if you ask me,
the zing, the activity, the action,
the movement, the life.
So question is, how do we write it?
[LAUGH] Well, that's I guess,
what we're here to talk about.
So that's really my job to answer.
[LAUGH] And at first, in this course,
if you've never seen JavaScript before,
if you have,
you're gonna maybe feel more comfortable.
But if you've never seen
JavaScript before, there are times
where it's just gonna feel like you
are just saying some weird spell or
some kind of jargon invocation, like
light as a feather stiff as a board and
anybody played this game as a kid,
just me, just 90s kids, okay?
So this is like a game where
sometimes you feel like you're
just repeating spells that
you don't totally understand.
You're just saying, or writing in this
case, something that you don't totally
know how it works, but you know that it
does something, like levitate your friend.
But hopefully, by the time we finish
this course and by the time we have
the tools in our tool belt to go on and
continue learning JavaScript,
we will feel totally in control
of this magic art of JavaScript.
And we will be able to wield its powers
for good or evil as we so choose.
And so this is the hope that we're gonna
start by writing some things that we were
just gonna repeat the words and
we don't know what they mean.
But we're gonna dig into them and
we're gonna learn what they mean so
that we can really have a strong
command over the language.
So maybe a more apt question
to get started is not so
much how we write JavaScript but
where we write JavaScript.
So where do you write
JavaScript to anybody?
Anybody wanna throw in, there are several
answers to this question, but
anybody wanna throw in a place
where you could write JavaScript?
>> Source script in the browser.
>> In the browser?
Yes, so one place that we can write
JavaScript is in the browser.
And there are a couple
of ways we can do that.
So one place and
where we're going to be working today
is in the browser's JavaScript console.
Console is kind of a live
dynamic sort of interpreter for
JavaScript that we can use.
I don't think it's at our fingertips,
it's already in your computer,
it's been hiding there.
[LAUGH] So
it's already in our web browsers,
that's what we're gonna be using today.
But there are also some
other options that we have.
So one thing is that we
could use a a txt file.
So the same as we would write HTML in a
.html file, we can also use a script tag,
which I think someone also
mentioned in the chat.
We can use a script element to write
JavaScript within our HTML files in
a local file, which we can edit
with whatever text editor we like.
So we could use something built-in
to most systems like text editor or
whatever editor your laptop maybe or
your operating system comes with.
Might not be a laptop, might be a,
I don't know, any other kind of device, or
we can use a kind of fully featured IDE,
an integrated development environment.
[LAUGH] Which, for example, VS code is
a hugely popular one among JavaScript
developers, which gives us some nice
extra, things like auto completion, and
maybe some nice features to integrate with
other tools in our developer workflow.
And we can also use because JavaScript
is such a hugely popular language,
there are some amazing online playground.
So even if we're working,
let's say on a smartphone or
on some other device where we don't
really have access to things like an IDE.
Or maybe even the JavaScript
console in the browser,
we can use some of these cool
playground sites like CodePen, .io,
I think it is or code sandbox.io to
write JavaScript in our browser.
And if you sign up for
a free account on some of these sites,
you can also save little
snippets of JavaScript.
So you have lots of options.
We're gonna be working largely in
our browsers, JavaScript console and
local text files, but if you are doing
something else, if you are in a CodePen or
whatever else that is totally valid.
There are some minor differences between
and sometimes major differences between
different environments
where we write JavaScript.
So if questions come up,
feel free to ask them.
Today, we're gonna be focusing on
the browser's JavaScript console.
Shall we write some JavaScript?
Let's open up our browser's console
by doing the following things.
So there is if we go into
the course site which again
on Java.dev/havaScript-first-steps,
you'll notice on day one
link to a Tic Tac Toe.
If you open that page, you'll see
a very exciting web page like this.
It's not much to look at, but
it's a basic webpage that's gonna give us
the scaffolding for
some of the things we talked about today.
And we want to now on this page, just with
this page open in your browser, so it's
anjana.dev/javaScript-first-steps/1-ticta-
ctoe.html.
We're going to now open our
browser's developer tools so
that we can get to the JavaScript console.
Can anybody who's maybe already done
this before walk me through how I
would get the developer
tools open in this page?
There's a few different ways.
>> You right click and then at the bottom
of the drop down box is inspect.
>> Great, yes.
So probably the easiest way to get
the developer tools open is to right
click anywhere on the page and inspect.
Now, this is usually used for
inspecting HTML elements,
and we're gonna talk about
that a little bit later.
What we'll see, yours might look a little
bit different depending what browser
you're in, what you'll see is some kind
of HTML with whatever element you maybe
clicked on, highlighted here.
And as you move around, you'll see
the different HTML elements get selected.
And so from here, so now what we've done,
again, we opened the file,
if you'd like to download that file and
open it locally, you can also do that.
You can open a local file in your browser,
which is what we'll be
working with more tomorrow.
But right now the live file online is
fine, we right clicked to click Inspect.
And now, we wanna open the JavaScript Enos
and so at the top or again,
depending on your browser, you might be on
the bottom of the page or what have you,
you should see an option called Console.
And that will open up a little, what we
call prompt so these two little lines and
now, you are able to type stuff,
and stuff will happen.
So for example, I can say I'm gonna type
a weird invocation here, just a spell.
I can say "hell yes JS!", and
press Enter and JavaScript does something.
In this case,
I just told JavaScript to log or print or
display something in the console.
In this case, what I asked it to
display was the string, hell yes JS.
So we're gonna talk
about all this later but
the idea is that now you can
enter JavaScript things.
You can do math for example.
And every time I press Enter after
entering some code, JavaScript will run
and it will try to interpret or evaluate
or basically make sense of that code,
and so this is how we're gonna be
interacting with JavaScript today.